[RF-DOCS] Asset Pipeline Documentation [ci-skip] (#10)
Ridhwana/rails: guides/source/asset_pipeline.md

After reading this guide, you will know:

* What the asset pipeline is and what it does.
* The main features of Propshaft, and how to set it up.
* How to migrate from Sprockets to Propshaft.
* How to use other libraries for more advanced asset management.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

What is an Asset Pipeline?
---------------------------

> The Rails Asset Pipeline is a framework designed to for organizing, caching, and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Rails Asset Pipeline is a framework designed for organizing, caching, and
```

serving static assets. Assets typically include JavaScript, CSS, images, and
other static files that are served to the user. It streamlines and optimizes the
management of these assets to enhance the performance and maintainability of the
application.

The Rails Asset Pipeline is managed by
[**Propshaft**](https://github.com/rails/propshaft) in Rails 8. Propshaft is
built for an era where transpilation, bundling and compression are less critical
for basic applications, thanks to better browser support and faster networks and
HTTP/2 capabilities. To explore the [evolution of asset management
techniques](#evolution-of-asset-management-techniques) and how the Rails Asset
Pipeline has adapted over time, refer to the section below.

The simplified design of Propshaft, compared to its predecessor
[Sprockets](https://github.com/rails/sprockets), focuses on essential asset
management tasks, and it leaves more complex tasks, such as JavaScript and CSS
bundling and minification, to specialized tools like `js-bundling-rails` and

> `css-bundling-rails`, which can be added separately to your application.

Reviewer: Worth linking?

https://github.com/rails/jsbundling-rails
https://github.com/rails/cssbundling-rails

?

> Propshaft focuses on fingerprinting and emphasizes generating digest-based URLs

Reviewer: And maybe worth linking to the later Fingerprinting section here too?

environments. When you reference an asset in your application, Rails uses the
manifest to find the correct fingerprinted filename to include in the HTML
output.

Features
--------

Propshaft expects that your assets are already in a browser-ready format—like
plain CSS, JavaScript, or preprocessed images (like JPEGs or PNGs). Propshaft’s
job is to organize, version, and serve those assets efficiently. If you want to
use advanced features, like [Sass](https://sass-lang.com/) for styles or modern
JavaScript features, you’d usually handle those with a separate tool (like
[Webpack](https://webpack.js.org/), [Vite](https://vite.dev/), or
[esbuild](https://esbuild.github.io/)) alongside Propshaft.

In this section, we’ll cover the main features of Propshaft, how it works and
compare it with its predecessor, [Sprockets](https://github.com/rails/sprockets-rails).

### No dependency chains

In Sprockets, you could link files
together so they were loaded in the correct order. For example, you may have had
a main JavaScript file that relied on other files to be loaded first. Sprockets
managed this for you automatically, checking dependencies and loading everything
in the correct order.

> With Propshaft, it doesn’t automatically understand these dependencies. If

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Propshaft doesn’t automatically understand these dependencies. If
```

This includes images, stylesheets, JavaScript files, and more.

If you want to exclude certain directories from this process, you can use
`config.assets.excluded_paths`. Read more about this in the [Fingerprinting
section](#fingerprinting).

Once precompiled, these assets can be referenced by their logical path using
helpers like `asset_path`, `image_tag`, and `javascript_include_tag`. In production,
when `assets:precompile` is run, these references are automatically turned into
digest-aware paths. This is done using a `manifest.json` file that is
automatically generated in` public/assets/.manifest.json`. This file maps logical
asset paths to their precompiled file paths.

Using Propshaft in your app
----------------------------------

Propshaft is the default asset pipeline in Rails 8, so you don’t need to install
it separately. When you create a new Rails 8 application, Propshaft is included
by default.

To use Propshaft, you need to configure it properly and organize your assets in
a way that Rails can serve them efficiently.

### Setup

Follow these steps for setup Propshaft in your Rails application:

1. Create a new Rails 8 application:

    ```bash

>     $ rails new myapp

Reviewer: Do you want to make this match above, e.g.

```suggestion
    $ rails new my_app
```

Reviewer: (or `app_name`)

    `app/views/layouts/application.html.erb`), you can include your assets using
    the `stylesheet_link_tag` and `javascript_include_tag` helpers:

    ```erb
    <!-- app/views/layouts/application.html.erb -->
    <!DOCTYPE html>
    <html>
      <head>
        <title>MyApp</title>
        <%= stylesheet_link_tag "main" %>
      </head>
      <body>
        <%= yield %>
        <%= javascript_include_tag "main" %>
      </body>
    </html>
    ```

    This layout includes the `main.css` stylesheet and `main.js` JavaScript file
    in your application.

    TIP: If you need to include static files (e.g., fonts, PDFs), place them in
    app/assets or public. Files in public are served directly without preprocessing.

4. Precompile Assets for Production

    In development, assets are served directly from the source, however, in
    production, you must precompile assets. Run the following command to
    generate the precompiled assets:

    ```bash
    $ rails assets:precompile
    ```

    This step bundles and optimizes your assets for faster delivery in production.

5. Start your Rails server:

    ```bash
    $ rails server
    ```

>     This command starts your Rails server, and you can view your application in

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    This command starts your Rails server so you can view your application in
```

    a web browser.

> 6. View your application in a web browser:

Reviewer: Might be good to avoid the repetition here:

```suggestion
6. Preview your application:
```

`application.js` and `application.css` as well as other files, such as images.
Here's an example of what the JSON might look like:

```json
{
  "application.css": "application-6d58c9e6e3b5d4a7c9a8e3.css",
  "application.js": "application-2d4b9f6c5a7c8e2b8d9e6.js",
  "logo.png": "logo-f3e8c9b2a6e5d4c8.png",
  "favicon.ico": "favicon-d6c8e5a9f3b2c7.ico"
}
```

### Asset Organization

Propshaft organizes assets within the `app/assets` directory, which includes
subdirectories like `images`, `javascripts`, and `stylesheets`. You can place
your JavaScript, CSS, image files, and other assets into these directories, and
Propshaft will manage them during the precompilation process.

You can also add additional asset paths for Propshaft to search by modifying
`config.assets.paths` in your `config/initializers/assets.rb` file. For example:

```ruby
# Add additional assets to the asset load path.
Rails.application.config.assets.paths << Emoji.images_path
```

Propshaft will make all assets from the configured paths available for serving.
During the precompilation process, Propshaft copies these assets into the
`public/assets` directory, ensuring they are ready for production use. This is

> different from Sprockets, which required explicit inclusion of assets in the

Reviewer: Just thinking about what the balance is of comparing Propshaft to Sprockets - as if I'm brand new to this all and therefore just using Propshaft, do I care much about how they compare? Wondering what you think? It may be that we can take out some comparisons and make the sections a bit leaner.

Reviewer 2: Agree, and I also suggested reordering the sections in a comment above.

Author: Thanks you both!  I’ve re-ordered the sections based on your suggestions—thank you! The flow feels much more natural now, and it helped me catch and remove some duplications. As a result, I also combined the comparisons of Propshaft and Sprockets into one section instead of spreading them throughout the guide.

and compiles them into the appropriate build directory. Propshaft will detect
changes in the assets and serve the compiled files to the browser.

#### Improving Performance with File Watchers

In development, Propshaft checks if any assets have been updated before each
request, using the application's file watcher (by default,
`ActiveSupport::FileUpdateChecker`). If you have a large number of assets, you
can improve performance by using the `listen` gem and configuring the following
setting in `config/environments/development.rb`:

```ruby
config.file_watcher = ActiveSupport::EventedFileUpdateChecker
```

This will reduce the overhead of checking for file updates and improve
performance during development.

### Production

In production, Rails serves assets with caching enabled to optimize performance,
ensuring that your application can handle high traffic efficiently.

#### Asset Caching and Versioning in Production

Rails compiles assets into a single location and uses the asset fingerprinting
method to ensure that users receive the most up-to-date version of the asset.
You can precompile assets using the `rails:assets:precompile` task. You can read

> ore about this is the [Fingerprinting section](#fingerprinting). By default,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
more about this in the [Fingerprinting section](#fingerprinting). By default,
```

Rails assumes assets have been precompiled and will be served as static assets
by your web server.

During the precompilation phase a SHA256 is generated from the contents of the

> compiled files, and inserted into the filenames as they are written to disk.

Reviewer: I think this could be made a bit more obvious:

```suggestion
compiled files, which inserts a unique string into the filenames as they are written to disk.
```

After reading this guide, you will know:

* What the asset pipeline is and what it does.
* The main features of Propshaft, and how to set it up.
* How to migrate from Sprockets to Propshaft.
* How to use other libraries for more advanced asset management.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

What is an Asset Pipeline?
---------------------------

> The Rails Asset Pipeline is a framework designed for organizing, caching, and
> serving static assets. Assets typically include JavaScript, CSS, images, and
> other static files that are served to the user. It streamlines and optimizes the

Reviewer 3: To make it a little less wordy like this? (feel free to ignore)

```suggestion
The Rails Asset Pipeline is a library designed for organizing, caching, and
serving static assets, such as JavaScript, CSS, and image files. It streamlines and optimizes the
```

HTTP/2 capabilities. To explore the [evolution of asset management
techniques](#evolution-of-asset-management-techniques) and how the Rails Asset
Pipeline has adapted over time, refer to the section below.

The simplified design of Propshaft, compared to its predecessor
[Sprockets](https://github.com/rails/sprockets), focuses on essential asset
management tasks, and it leaves more complex tasks, such as JavaScript and CSS
bundling and minification, to specialized tools like [`js-bundling-rails`](https://github.com/rails/jsbundling-rails) and
[`css-bundling-rails`](https://github.com/rails/cssbundling-rails), which can be added separately to your application.
Propshaft focuses on [fingerprinting](#fingerprinting) and emphasizes generating digest-based URLs
for assets, allowing browsers to cache them, thus minimizing the need for
intricate compilation and bundling.

The asset pipeline uses the [Propshaft](https://github.com/rails/propshaft) gem
and is enabled by default in new Rails 8 applications.

If, for some reason, you want to disable it during setup, you can use the
`--skip-asset-pipeline` option:

```bash
$ rails new app_name --skip-asset-pipeline
```

> NOTE: Prior to version 8, the asset pipeline was powered by Sprockets. You can
> read more about the [Sprockets Asset
> Pipeline](https://guides.rubyonrails.org/v7.2/asset_pipeline.html) in the Rails
> Guides.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
NOTE: Prior to version 8, the asset pipeline was powered by Sprockets. You can
read more about the [Sprockets Asset
Pipeline](https://guides.rubyonrails.org/v7.2/asset_pipeline.html) in the Rails
Guides of previous versions.
```

Author: Good catch! I reworded to be:

```
NOTE: Prior to version 8, the asset pipeline was powered by Sprockets. You can
read more about the [Sprockets Asset
Pipeline](https://guides.rubyonrails.org/v7.2/asset_pipeline.html) in previous versions of the Rails
Guides.
```

Evolution of Asset Management Techniques
----------------------------------------

Within the last few years, the evolution of the web has led to significant
changes that have influenced how assets are managed in web applications. These
include:

1. **Browser Support**: Modern browsers have improved support for new features
   and syntax, reducing the need for transpilation and polyfills.
2. **HTTP/2**: The introduction of HTTP/2 has made it easier to serve multiple
   files in parallel, reducing the need for bundling.
3. **ES6+**: Modern JavaScript syntax (ES6+) is supported by most modern
   browsers, reducing the need for transpilation and minification.

Therefore, in Rails 8, the asset pipeline powered by Propshaft, no longer
includes transpilation, bundling, or compression by default. However,
fingerprinting remains an integral part of Propshaft. You can learn more about

> it below.

Reviewer 3: Nice. I like this list and spelling out what Propshaft focuses on.

Reviewer 2: Interesting that you say this @bhumi1102, as my initial reaction was: Why go through everything that the asset pipeline _doesn't_ need before we say what _is_ needed. 

My gut is saying this should be pushed to the bottom as an 'interesting to note' as opposed to treated as a main chunk of the guide. I can see how this would help with SEO when people search, though.

Reviewer 3: Haha, what I meant was I liked the list 1, 2, 3 above. Agree about including what Propshaft _does_ do first (and _not_ focusing what it doesn't need to do).

Author: I decided to move the "Evolution of Asset Management Techniques" section under "Sprockets to Propshaft," as it felt more fitting there. A lot of the decisions around moving from Sprockets to Propshaft are tied to how asset management techniques have evolved.

### Transpilation ❌

Transpilation involves converting code from one language or format to another.

For example, converting CoffeeScript to JavaScript.

```javascript
alert "Hello, world!"
```

After transpilation, this code becomes:

```javascript
alert("Hello, world!");
```

In the past, pre-processors like [Sass](https://sass-lang.com/) and
[Less](https://lesscss.org/) were essential for CSS features such as variables
and nesting. Today, modern CSS supports these natively, reducing the need for
transpilation.

### Bundling ❌

Bundling combines multiple files into one to reduce the number of HTTP requests
a browser needs to make to render a page.

For example, if your application has three JavaScript files:
- menu.js
- cart.js
- checkout.js

Bundling will merge these into a single application.js file.

> ```javascript
> // Contents of menu.js, cart.js, and checkout.js are combined here

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```javascript
// app/javascript/application.js
// Contents of menu.js, cart.js, and checkout.js are combined here
```

```

This was crucial with HTTP/1.1, which limited 6-8 simultaneous connections per

> domain. With HTTP/2, browsers fetch multiple files in parallel, making bundling
> less critical for modern applications.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
domain. With HTTP/2, browsers can fetch multiple files in parallel, making bundling
less critical for modern applications.
```

Author: Using "can" in the suggestion implies optionality. However, I'm under the impression that HTTP/2 fetches multiple files in parallel with certainty.

### Compression ❌

Compression encodes files in a more efficient format to reduce their size
further when delivered to users. A common technique is [Gzip
compression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gzip).

For example, a CSS file that's 200KB may compress to just 50KB when Gzipped.
Browsers automatically decompress such files upon receipt, saving bandwidth and
improving speed.

Minification is a form of compression that removes unnecessary characters (like
whitespace, comments, and newlines).

Before minification:

```javascript
function add(a, b) {
    // Adds two numbers
    return a + b;
}
```

After minification:

```javascript
function add(a,b){return a+b;}
```

Modern ES6+ syntax is supported by modern browsers, thus reducing the reliance on
minification.

### Fingerprinting ✔️

Fingerprinting is a technique that makes the name of a file dependent on the
contents of the file. A digest of the content is generated and appended to the
name so that when the file contents changes, so does the digest, and therefore
the filename is also changed. For static or infrequently changed content, this
provides an easy way to tell whether two versions of a file are identical, even

> across different servers or deployment dates.

Reviewer 3: Nice clear explanation

encourage caches everywhere (whether at CDNs, at ISPs, in networking equipment,
or in web browsers) to keep their own copy of the content. When the content is
updated, the fingerprint will change. This will cause the remote clients to
request a new copy of the content. This is generally known as _cache busting_.

When fingerprinted, a file like `styles.css` is renamed to
`styles-a1b2c3d4e5f6.css`. This ensures that if `styles.css` is updated, the
filename changes as well, compelling the browser to download the latest version
instead of using a potentially outdated cached copy.

A manifest is a file that maps logical asset paths to their corresponding
fingerprinted filenames. The manifest is used to look up the correct filename
for an asset. The manifest is typically a JSON file that looks like this:

```json
{
  "application.js": "application-1a2b3c4d5e6f.js",
  "application.css": "application-1a2b3c4d5e6f.css"
}
```

Fingerprinting is enabled by default for both the development and production
environments. When you reference an asset in your application, Rails uses the
manifest to find the correct fingerprinted filename to include in the HTML
output.

> Features

Reviewer 3: Is it accurate to call these Propshaft features?

```suggestion
Propshaft Features
```

Author: Yes, I think this makes sense.

--------

Propshaft expects that your assets are already in a browser-ready format—like
plain CSS, JavaScript, or preprocessed images (like JPEGs or PNGs). Propshaft’s
job is to organize, version, and serve those assets efficiently. If you want to
use advanced features, like [Sass](https://sass-lang.com/) for styles or modern
JavaScript features, you’d usually handle those with a separate tool (like
[Webpack](https://webpack.js.org/), [Vite](https://vite.dev/), or
[esbuild](https://esbuild.github.io/)) alongside Propshaft.

In this section, we’ll cover the main features of Propshaft, how it works and
compare it with its predecessor, [Sprockets](https://github.com/rails/sprockets-rails).

### No dependency chains

In Sprockets, you could link files
together so they were loaded in the correct order. For example, you may have had
a main JavaScript file that relied on other files to be loaded first. Sprockets
managed this for you automatically, checking dependencies and loading everything
in the correct order.

Propshaft doesn’t automatically understand these dependencies. If

> you have files that depend on each other, you’ll need to manage the order in

Reviewer 3: Should this be called out like a warning or something?

Author: I ended up moving sections around and updated the phrasing to 

"With Propshaft, you can control the loading order of dependent files by
organizing them manually or ensuring they are included in the correct sequence
within your HTML or layout files...."

Hence, this won't apply any longer.

digested filenames. However, for JavaScript files, you’ll need to manually
trigger the transformation or use a bundler to ensure the correct filenames are
applied.

You can read more about how to use asset versioning in the [Fingerprinting
section](#fingerprinting).

### Asset Precompilation

In Propshaft, all assets from the paths configured in `config.assets.paths` are
available for serving and will be copied into `public/assets` when precompiling.
Unlike Sprockets, which only copied assets that were explicitly included in a
bundle, Propshaft automatically processes all assets from the specified paths.
This includes images, stylesheets, JavaScript files, and more.

If you want to exclude certain directories from this process, you can use
`config.assets.excluded_paths`. Read more about this in the [Fingerprinting
section](#fingerprinting).

Once precompiled, these assets can be referenced by their logical path using
helpers like `asset_path`, `image_tag`, and `javascript_include_tag`. In production,
when `assets:precompile` is run, these references are automatically turned into
digest-aware paths. This is done using a `manifest.json` file that is

> automatically generated in` public/assets/.manifest.json`. This file maps logical

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
automatically generated in` public/assets/manifest.json`. This file maps logical
```

asset paths to their precompiled file paths.

> Using Propshaft in your app

Reviewer 2: This feels a little like burying the lede. For a Rails 8 guide, it feels like this should be:

- This is an asset pipeline
- Propshaft takes care of the asset pipeline (these are the features)
- This is how to use it in your app
- If you are upgrading from an earlier version or from Sprockets, this is how you do it
- and finally, if we keep it in: the evolution of asset management (although since Propshaft does use fingerprinting, perhaps this section can be: "Propshaft eliminates the need for practices like the following that you may have encountered"
- This naturally leads to Alternative Libraries and the opening to that section

Author: I’ve re-ordered the sections based on your suggestions—thank you! The flow feels much more natural now, and it helped me catch and remove some duplications. I also combined the comparisons of Propshaft and Sprockets into one section instead of spreading them throughout the guide.

Furthermore, I decided to move the "Evolution of Asset Management Techniques" section under "Sprockets to Propshaft," as it felt more fitting there. A lot of the decisions around moving from Sprockets to Propshaft are tied to how asset management techniques have evolved.

----------------------------------

> Propshaft is the default asset pipeline in Rails 8, so you don’t need to install

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
From version 8.0, Propshaft is the default asset pipeline in Rails, so you don’t need to install
```

    see your Rails application with the included assets.

### Manifest Files

In Propshaft, the `manifest.json` file is automatically generated during the
asset precompilation process. This file maps original asset filenames to their
fingerprinted versions, ensuring proper cache invalidation and efficient asset
management. Located in the `public/assets` directory, the `manifest.json` file
helps Rails resolve asset paths at runtime, allowing it to reference the correct
fingerprinted files.

The default `manifest.json` includes entries for main assets like
`application.js` and `application.css` as well as other files, such as images.
Here's an example of what the JSON might look like:

```json
{
  "application.css": "application-6d58c9e6e3b5d4a7c9a8e3.css",
  "application.js": "application-2d4b9f6c5a7c8e2b8d9e6.js",
  "logo.png": "logo-f3e8c9b2a6e5d4c8.png",
  "favicon.ico": "favicon-d6c8e5a9f3b2c7.ico"
}
```

### Asset Organization

Propshaft organizes assets within the `app/assets` directory, which includes
subdirectories like `images`, `javascripts`, and `stylesheets`. You can place
your JavaScript, CSS, image files, and other assets into these directories, and

> Propshaft will manage them during the precompilation process.

Reviewer 3: This feels like it's been repeated couple times already, but I guess it's okay since this section is about asset organization.

Author: Yup! Thanks for calling this out. This and a few other sections were repeated because of my structure, however, I’ve re-ordered the sections so that the flow feels much more natural, and it helped me catch and remove some duplications.

`public/assets` directory, ensuring they are ready for production use. This is
different from Sprockets, which required explicit inclusion of assets in the
precompile list if they were not part of the bundled assets.

Assets can be referenced through their logical paths using helpers like
`asset_path`, `image_tag`, `javascript_include_tag`, and other asset helper
tags. After running `assets:precompile` in production, these logical references
are automatically converted into their fingerprinted paths using the
`manifest.json` file found in `public/assets`.

#### CSS and ERB

Propshaft allows you to include CSS files, and you can also use ERB templates in
your assets. This allows you to include dynamic content in your CSS files, like
configuration values or environment-specific variables, just like in JavaScript
files.

For example, you can include ERB within a CSS file like so:

```css
/* app/assets/stylesheets/application.css.erb */
body {
  background-color: <%= Rails.env.production? ? 'black' : 'white' %>;
}
```

This will evaluate the ERB code and inject the appropriate color based on the
environment.

### Coding Links to Assets

> Here's your updated section with the correct information for Propshaft:

Reviewer 3: Is this line needed? Confused by stating a section way..

```suggestion
Here's your updated section with the correct information for Propshaft:
```

Author: Oops fixed.

option. This causes Turbo to check if an asset has been updated and, if so,
reload it into the page:

```erb
<%= stylesheet_link_tag "application", "data-turbo-track": "reload" %>
```

In regular views, you can access images in the `app/assets/images` directory
like this:

```erb
<%= image_tag "rails.png" %>
```

When the asset pipeline is enabled, Propshaft will serve this file. If a file
exists at `public/assets/rails.png`, it will be served by the web server.

Alternatively, if you are using fingerprinted assets (e.g.,
`rails-f90d8a84c707a8dc923fca1ca1895ae8ed0a09237f6992015fef1e11be77c023.png`),
Propshaft will also serve these correctly. The fingerprint is automatically
applied during the precompilation process.

Images can be organized into subdirectories, and you can reference them by
specifying the directory in the tag:

```erb
<%= image_tag "icons/rails.png" %>
```

WARNING: If you're precompiling your assets (see [the Production
section](#production) below), linking to an asset that doesn't exist will
raise an exception in the calling page. This includes linking to a blank string.
Be careful when using `image_tag` and other helpers with user-supplied data.

> Development vs. Production

Reviewer 3: This is a good section

--------------------------

### Development

In development, Rails and Propshaft are configured for flexibility, allowing
rapid iteration without manual intervention. This setup makes it easier to
manage assets as they change frequently during development.

#### No Caching in Development

In development, Rails is configured to bypass asset caching. This means that
when you modify assets (e.g., CSS, JavaScript), Rails will serve the most
up-to-date version directly from the file system. There's no need to worry about
versioning or file renaming because caching is skipped entirely. Browsers will
automatically pull in the latest version each time you reload the page.

#### Automatic Reloading of Assets

Rails ensures that asset changes are immediately reflected in the browser. It
checks for updates with every request, so that when you edit an asset like a
JavaScript or CSS file, reloading the page will display the changes instantly
without needing to restart the server.

> #### Propshaft Integration in Development

Reviewer 2: Isn't this covered in line 556 already?

Author: I removed this section completely and moved some of the unique information into the other sections.

The integration of Propshaft in a Rails application is handled by the standard
Rails development environment. Propshaft will automatically serve and manage
assets by compiling and serving updated versions directly from the file system
without manual intervention. This is done as part of the usual Rails asset
pipeline, with the default configuration ensuring the most recent asset changes

> are served on page reload.

Reviewer 3: This doesn't seem to say anything new, feels repetitive..

Author: I removed this section completely and moved some of the unique information into the other sections.

### Bundling ❌

Bundling combines multiple files into one to reduce the number of HTTP requests
a browser needs to make to render a page.

For example, if your application has three JavaScript files:
- menu.js
- cart.js
- checkout.js

Bundling will merge these into a single application.js file.

```javascript
// app/javascript/application.js
// Contents of menu.js, cart.js, and checkout.js are combined here
```

This was crucial with HTTP/1.1, which limited 6-8 simultaneous connections per
domain. With HTTP/2, browsers fetch multiple files in parallel, making bundling
less critical for modern applications.

### Compression ❌

Compression encodes files in a more efficient format to reduce their size
further when delivered to users. A common technique is [Gzip
compression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gzip).

For example, a CSS file that's 200KB may compress to just 50KB when Gzipped.
Browsers automatically decompress such files upon receipt, saving bandwidth and
improving speed.

Minification is a form of compression that removes unnecessary characters (like
whitespace, comments, and newlines).

Before minification:

```javascript
function add(a, b) {
    // Adds two numbers

>     return a + b;

Reviewer 4: Minification also minifies variable names and inlines temp vars, maybe add those to make the difference more dramatic?
```suggestion
function add(number1, number2) {
    // Adds two numbers
    var sum = number1 + number2;
    return sum;
```

```

Modern ES6+ syntax is supported by modern browsers, thus reducing the reliance on
minification.

### Fingerprinting ✔️

Fingerprinting is a technique that makes the name of a file dependent on the
contents of the file. A digest of the content is generated and appended to the
name so that when the file contents changes, so does the digest, and therefore
the filename is also changed. For static or infrequently changed content, this
provides an easy way to tell whether two versions of a file are identical, even
across different servers or deployment dates.

When a filename is unique and based on its content, HTTP headers can be set to
encourage caches everywhere (whether at CDNs, at ISPs, in networking equipment,
or in web browsers) to keep their own copy of the content. When the content is
updated, the fingerprint will change. This will cause the remote clients to
request a new copy of the content. This is generally known as _cache busting_.

When fingerprinted, a file like `styles.css` is renamed to
`styles-a1b2c3d4e5f6.css`. This ensures that if `styles.css` is updated, the
filename changes as well, compelling the browser to download the latest version

> instead of using a potentially outdated cached copy.

Reviewer 4: The introduction paragraph explains fingerprinting, this paragraph show an example of that.
I'm wondering if this paragraph should be show before the cache busting (which makes more sense after the example shows how it works?):
- introduction paragraph
- fingerprinting example
- cache busting

Author: Done!

A manifest is a file that maps logical asset paths to their corresponding
fingerprinted filenames. The manifest is used to look up the correct filename
for an asset. The manifest is typically a JSON file that looks like this:

```json
{
  "application.js": "application-1a2b3c4d5e6f.js",
  "application.css": "application-1a2b3c4d5e6f.css"
}
```

Fingerprinting is enabled by default for both the development and production
environments. When you reference an asset in your application, Rails uses the
manifest to find the correct fingerprinted filename to include in the HTML
output.

Propshaft Features

> --------

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Propshaft Features
------------------
```

Propshaft expects that your assets are already in a browser-ready format—like
plain CSS, JavaScript, or preprocessed images (like JPEGs or PNGs). Propshaft’s
job is to organize, version, and serve those assets efficiently. If you want to
use advanced features, like [Sass](https://sass-lang.com/) for styles or modern
JavaScript features, you’d usually handle those with a separate tool (like
[Webpack](https://webpack.js.org/), [Vite](https://vite.dev/), or

> [esbuild](https://esbuild.github.io/)) alongside Propshaft.

Reviewer 4: I think we want to link to https://github.com/rails/cssbundling-rails and https://github.com/rails/jsbundling-rails here, to make sure the reader doesn't try integrating these tools by hand?
Or even better, link to the js-bundling section in this guide?

Author: > Or even better, link to the js-bundling section in this guide?

Done!

    using `<script type="module">` in your HTML:

    ```
    // main.js
    import { initUtilities } from "./utilities.js";
    import { setupFeature } from "./feature.js";

    initUtilities();
    setupFeature();
    ```

    Then in your layout:

    ```
    <script type="module" src="main.js"></script>
    ```

    This way, you can manage dependencies within JavaScript files without relying on
    Propshaft to understand them. By importing modules, you can control the order in
    which files are loaded and ensure dependencies are met.

3. Combine Files when necessary

    If you have several JavaScript or CSS files that must always load together,
    you can combine them into a single file. For example, you could create a
    `combined.js` file that imports or copies code from other scripts. Then,
    just include `combined.js` in your layout to avoid dealing with individual
    file ordering. This can be useful for files that always load together, like
    a set of utility functions or a group of styles for a specific component.
    While this approach can work for small projects or simple use cases, it
    can become tedious and error-prone for larger applications.

> 4. Consider bundling your JavaScript or CSS using a bundler

Reviewer 4: Should this be written more similar to the other 3 points?
```suggestion
4. Bundle your JavaScript or CSS using a bundler
```

    If, for some reason, your project requires advanced features like dependency
    chaining, modern JavaScript syntax, or CSS pre-processing (e.g.,
    [Sass](https://sass-lang.com/) or [PostCSS](https://postcss.org/)), consider
    using [`js-bundling-rails`](https://github.com/rails/jsbundling-rails) or [`css-bundling-rails`](https://github.com/rails/cssbundling-rails). These gems integrate
    tools like [Webpack](https://webpack.js.org/),
    [esbuild](https://esbuild.github.io/), or [Vite](https://vite.dev/) into
    your Rails application, enabling you to handle complex asset requirements
    alongside Propshaft.

>     Use `js-bundling-rails` with these tools to bundle JavaScript files, manage

Reviewer 4: I think we should link to the `js-bundling` section from here instead.

    documentation](https://github.com/rails/jsbundling-rails).

    Use `css-bundling-rails` to pre-process stylesheets using tools like
    [Sass](https://sass-lang.com/) or [Tailwind CSS](https://tailwindcss.com/),
    making it easier to work with advanced CSS features. For more details, check
    the [`css-bundling-rails`
    documentation](https://github.com/rails/cssbundling-rails).

    To read more about how to use these gems you can see the [Advanced Asset
    Management section](#advanced-asset-management). These tools complement
    Propshaft by handling the complex processing, while Propshaft efficiently
    organizes and serves the final assets.

### Versioning with digest-based URLs

In Rails, asset versioning helps manage cache behavior by adding unique
identifiers to asset filenames. This ensures that whenever an asset is updated,
the browser sees it as a new file and loads the latest version instead of using
an older, cached one.

Sprockets automatically handles asset fingerprinting by appending a hash to
filenames whenever assets are updated. Similarly, Propshaft uses content-based
fingerprinting and automatically updates asset paths in CSS to reference

> digested filenames. However, for JavaScript files, you’ll need to manually

Reviewer 4: Mention Propshaft before Sprockets here (similar to the next section)?
```suggestion
Propshaft uses content-based
fingerprinting and automatically updates asset paths in CSS to reference
digested filenames. Similarly, Sprockets automatically handles asset fingerprinting by appending a hash to
filenames whenever assets are updated. However, for JavaScript files, you’ll need to manually
```

trigger the transformation or use a bundler to ensure the correct filenames are
applied.

You can read more about how to use asset versioning in the [Fingerprinting
section](#fingerprinting).

> ### Asset Precompilation

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
### Asset Precompilation
```
Just a comment.... Precompilation somewhat confuses me as nothing seems to get compiled.
If there is no transpiling, minification, etc... why are we precompiling?
Maybe this is just a relic of Sprockets naming, that is difficult to change now.

Author: The [Propshaft Github docs](https://github.com/rails/propshaft/tree/main) still refer to the term precompilation, and it implies that it does this during precompilation:

All assets in the load path will be copied (or compiled when using [advanced asset management](#advanced-asset-management)) in the precompilation step and stamped with a digest hash.

I'll try and clean up these sections a bit more.

Author: Something else usefule: "Propshaft was explicitly not designed to provide full transpiler capabilities. You can get that better elsewhere. But it does offer a simple input->output compiler setup that by default is used to translate url(asset) function calls in CSS to url(digested-asset) instead and source mapping comments likewise"

Author: NOTE: I rewrote this section to be a more clear.

In Propshaft, all assets from the paths configured in `config.assets.paths` are
available for serving and will be copied into `public/assets` when precompiling.
Unlike Sprockets, which only copied assets that were explicitly included in a
bundle, Propshaft automatically processes all assets from the specified paths.
This includes images, stylesheets, JavaScript files, and more.

If you want to exclude certain directories from this process, you can use
`config.assets.excluded_paths`. Read more about this in the [Fingerprinting
section](#fingerprinting).

Once precompiled, these assets can be referenced by their logical path using
helpers like `asset_path`, `image_tag`, and `javascript_include_tag`. In production,

> when `assets:precompile` is run, these references are automatically turned into

Reviewer 4: Should this use the full command that is run?
```suggestion
when `bin/rails assets:precompile` is run, these references are automatically turned into
```

digest-aware paths. This is done using a `manifest.json` file that is
automatically generated in` public/assets/manifest.json`. This file maps logical

> asset paths to their precompiled file paths.

Reviewer 4: This section has some overlap with the fingerprinting section that more thoroughly explains the `manifest.json`.
Not sure if it should be changed, or combined, or kept like this.

Author: Yup! Thanks for calling this out. This and a few other sections were repeated because of my structure, however, I’ve re-ordered the sections so that the flow feels much more natural, and it helped me catch and remove some duplications.

Using Propshaft in your app
----------------------------------

> From version 8.0, Propshaft is the default asset pipeline in Rails, so you don’t need to install

Reviewer 4: Is 8.0 the version of Rails or Propshaft?
```suggestion
From Rails 8.0, Propshaft is the default asset pipeline, so you don’t need to install
```

    JavaScript files, `app/assets/stylesheets` for CSS files, and
    `app/assets/images` for images.

    For example, you can create a new JavaScript file in `app/assets/javascripts`:

    ```javascript
    // app/assets/javascripts/main.js
    console.log("Hello, world!");
    ```

    And a new CSS file in `app/assets/stylesheets`:

    ```css
    /* app/assets/stylesheets/main.css */
    body {
      background-color: red;
    }
    ```

3. Link Assets in Your Application Layout

    In your application layout file (usually
    `app/views/layouts/application.html.erb`), you can include your assets using
    the `stylesheet_link_tag` and `javascript_include_tag` helpers:

    ```erb
    <!-- app/views/layouts/application.html.erb -->
    <!DOCTYPE html>
    <html>
      <head>
        <title>MyApp</title>
        <%= stylesheet_link_tag "main" %>
      </head>
      <body>
        <%= yield %>
        <%= javascript_include_tag "main" %>
      </body>
    </html>
    ```

    This layout includes the `main.css` stylesheet and `main.js` JavaScript file
    in your application.

    TIP: If you need to include static files (e.g., fonts, PDFs), place them in

>     app/assets or public. Files in public are served directly without preprocessing.

Reviewer 4: Files in `/public` aren't fingerprinted, so I'm not sure we should recommend adding them there.

4. Precompile Assets for Production

    In development, assets are served directly from the source, however, in
    production, you must precompile assets. Run the following command to
    generate the precompiled assets:

    ```bash

>     $ rails assets:precompile

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    $ bin/rails assets:precompile
```

    ```

>     This step bundles and optimizes your assets for faster delivery in production.

Reviewer 4: This only fingerprints them with Propshaft, right?

Author: [Correct](https://github.com/rails/propshaft/tree/main). I should not have "bundle and optimize" there. For Propshaft, all assets in the load path will be copied (or compiled when using advance asset management) in a precompilation step for production that also stamps all of them with a digest hash. Will add clarification to the guide.

> 5. Start your Rails server:

Reviewer 4: If we are starting the app locally here, I don't think we need to do precompilation (step 4)?

Author: Yup! Remove and I've added some more details about precompilation step in the production section.

    ```bash

>     $ rails server

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    $ bin/rails server
```

    ```
    This command starts your Rails server so you can view your application in
    a web browser.

6. Preview your application:

    Open your web browser and navigate to `http://localhost:3000`. You should
    see your Rails application with the included assets.

> ### Manifest Files

Reviewer 4: This seems like the third time Manifest files get explained 😄 
Can we maybe remove some of the overlap?
Is there a clear location for this section that has a preference?

Author: Yeah I've realized that there's some repetition in this guide, I'll clean up the repetition and move the sections around to flow better.

`config.assets.paths` in your `config/initializers/assets.rb` file. For example:

```ruby
# Add additional assets to the asset load path.
Rails.application.config.assets.paths << Emoji.images_path
```

Propshaft will make all assets from the configured paths available for serving.
During the precompilation process, Propshaft copies these assets into the
`public/assets` directory, ensuring they are ready for production use. This is
different from Sprockets, which required explicit inclusion of assets in the
precompile list if they were not part of the bundled assets.

Assets can be referenced through their logical paths using helpers like
`asset_path`, `image_tag`, `javascript_include_tag`, and other asset helper
tags. After running `assets:precompile` in production, these logical references
are automatically converted into their fingerprinted paths using the
`manifest.json` file found in `public/assets`.

#### CSS and ERB

Propshaft allows you to include CSS files, and you can also use ERB templates in
your assets. This allows you to include dynamic content in your CSS files, like
configuration values or environment-specific variables, just like in JavaScript
files.

> For example, you can include ERB within a CSS file like so:

Reviewer 4: Oh wow, didn't know that 🤯

generates something like this:

```html
<link rel="stylesheet" href="/assets/application-abcdef1234567890.css">
```

#### Precompiling Assets

Rails comes bundled with a command to compile asset manifests and other files in
the asset pipeline.

Precompilation converts source asset files (e.g., SASS, TypeScript, CSS, or any
other preprocessed files) into files ready to be served to clients. This can
include tasks like compilation, minification, or uglification, depending on the
application's needs. The resulting files are then placed in the `public/assets`
directory, from where they are delivered by the server.

In development mode, precompilation is usually not necessary because the Rails
application server can serve the files directly, often with live reloading
enabled.

In production, precompilation is typically run during deployment to ensure that
the latest versions of the assets are served. To manually run precompilation:

```bash
$ RAILS_ENV=production rails assets:precompile
```

By default, assets are served from the `/assets` directory.

> WARNING: Do not run the precompile command in development mode. Running it in

Reviewer 3: Good warning. I've seen people run into this issue often.

generates something like this:

```html
<link rel="stylesheet" href="/assets/application-abcdef1234567890.css">
```

#### Precompiling Assets

Rails comes bundled with a command to compile asset manifests and other files in
the asset pipeline.

Precompilation converts source asset files (e.g., SASS, TypeScript, CSS, or any
other preprocessed files) into files ready to be served to clients. This can
include tasks like compilation, minification, or uglification, depending on the
application's needs. The resulting files are then placed in the `public/assets`
directory, from where they are delivered by the server.

In development mode, precompilation is usually not necessary because the Rails
application server can serve the files directly, often with live reloading
enabled.

In production, precompilation is typically run during deployment to ensure that
the latest versions of the assets are served. To manually run precompilation:

```bash
$ RAILS_ENV=production rails assets:precompile

> ```

Reviewer 4: This might be a good location  to also mention `SECRET_KEY_BASE_DUMMY`.
It cab be used when the secret_key_base for production can't be accessed.
https://edgeapi.rubyonrails.org/classes/Rails/Application.html#method-i-secret_key_base
````
```bash
$ RAILS_ENV=production SECRET_KEY_BASE_DUMMY=1 rails assets:precompile
```
````

Author: ✅

A common pattern for using a CDN is to set your production application as the
"origin" server. This means when a browser requests an asset from the CDN and
there is a cache miss, it will instead source the file from your server and
then cache it. For example if you are running a Rails application on
`example.com` and have a CDN configured at `mycdnsubdomain.fictional-cdn.com`,
then when a request is made to
`mycdnsubdomain.fictional-cdn.com/assets/smile.png`, the CDN will query your
server once at `example.com/assets/smile.png` and cache the request. The next
request to the CDN that comes in to the same URL will hit the cached copy. When
the CDN can serve an asset directly the request never touches your Rails server.
Since the assets from a CDN are geographically closer to the browser, the
request is faster, and since your server doesn't need to spend time serving

> assets, it can focus on serving application code as fast as possible.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
request is faster, and since your server doesn't need to spend time serving
assets, it can focus on serving application code.
```

##### Set up a CDN to Serve Static Assets

To set up your CDN, you have to have your application running in production on

> the internet at a publicly available URL, for example `example.com`. Next

Reviewer 3: Removing the multiple 'you'

```suggestion
To set up CDN, your application needs to be running in production on
the internet at a publicly available URL, for example `example.com`. Next
```

> there is a cache miss, it will grab the file from your server on the fly and

Reviewer: I think maybe the language is too informal/unclear here:

```suggestion
there is a cache miss, it will instead source the file from your server and
```

don't have to ever manually invalidate any items in your cache. By using a
different unique asset name instead, your users get the latest asset.

Migrating from Sprockets to Propshaft
-------------------------------------

Propshaft is intentionally simpler than
[Sprockets](https://github.com/rails/sprockets-rails), which may make migrating
from Sprockets a fair amount of work. This is especially true if you rely on

> Sprockets for tasks like transpiling [CoffeeScript](https://coffeescript.org/)

Reviewer 3: CoffeeScript is not used much if at all any more. I wonder if we should mention it less often in this guide overall...hm.

Author: Yup, I agree with you! Replacing it with TypeScript makes more sense.

1. Remove several sprocket gems using the `bundle remove <gem name>` :

  ```bash
  bundle remove sprockets
  bundle remove sprockets-rails
  bundle remove sass-rails
  ```

2. Delete the `config/assets.rb` and `assets/config/manifest.js` files from your
   project.

3. If you've already upgraded to Rails 8, then Propshaft is already included in
   your application, otherwise, install it using `bundle add propshaft`.

4. Remove the `config.assets.paths << Rails.root.join('app', 'assets')` line
   from your `application.rb` file.

5. Migrate asset helpers by replacing all instances of asset helpers (e.g.,
`image_url`) with standard URLs because Propshaft utilizes relative paths. For
example, image_url("logo.png") will become url("/logo.png).

6. If you're relying on Sprockets for transpiling, you'll need to switch to a
   Node-based transpiler like Webpack, esbuild, or Vite. You can use the
   `jsbundling-rails` and `cssbundling-rails` gems to integrate these tools into
   your Rails application.

For more information, you can read the [detailed guide on how to migrate from
Sprockets to
Propshaft](https://github.com/rails/propshaft/blob/main/UPGRADING.md).

> ### Fingerprinting

Reviewer 3: This section reads repetitive. Wait, there is already a section with the same name on line 149 above. I think this will give an error when doing `guide:generate`.

Author: Yup! Thanks for calling this out. This and a few other sections were repeated because of my structure, however, I’ve re-ordered the sections so that the flow feels much more natural, and it helped me catch and remove some duplications.

Fingerprinting is a technique that makes the name of a file dependent on its
content. A digest of the file's content is generated and appended to the
filename. This ensures that when the file content changes, its digest—and
consequently its filename—also changes. This mechanism is crucial for caching
assets effectively, as the browser will always load the updated version of an
asset when its content changes, thereby improving performance.

> ### Asset Precompilation and Digesting

Reviewer 3: This section seems to also repeas information covered in the guide already, is that intentional or could we remove some of the duplication?

Author: Yup! Thanks for calling this out. This and a few other sections were repeated because of my structure, however, I’ve re-ordered the sections so that the flow feels much more natural, and it helped me catch and remove some duplications.

including images, stylesheets, JavaScript files, and others.

When precompiling assets, Propshaft generates digested filenames for all assets.
For example, a file like `bg/pattern.svg` could be transformed into
`bg/pattern-2169cbef.svg`, where `2169cbef` is a digest of the file's content.
This allows browsers to efficiently cache assets, as the filename will change
whenever the file content changes.

### Digested Assets in Views

You can reference these digested assets in your views using standard Rails asset
helpers like `asset_path`, `image_tag`, `javascript_include_tag`, and others.
For example, if you reference an image in your CSS like:

```css
background: url("/bg/pattern.svg");
```

Propshaft will automatically convert this to:

```css
background: url("/assets/bg/pattern-2169cbef.svg");
```

This ensures that the browser always fetches the correct version of the asset.

### Digested Assets in JavaScript

In JavaScript, you need to manually trigger the asset transformation using the
`RAILS_ASSET_URL` pseudo-method. Here’s an example:

```javascript
export default class extends Controller {
  init() {

>     this.img = RAILS_ASSET_URL("/icons/trash.svg");

Reviewer 3: TIL

their digested paths during the precompilation process.

### Bypassing the Digest Step

If you need to reference files that refer to each other—like a JavaScript file
and its source map—and want to avoid the digesting process, you can pre-digest
these files manually. Propshaft recognizes files with the pattern
`-[digest].digested.js` as files that have already been digested and will
preserve their stable file names.

### Excluding Directories from Digestion

You can exclude certain directories from the precompilation and digestion
process by adding them to `config.assets.excluded_paths`. This is useful if, for
example, you’re using `app/assets/stylesheets` as input to a compiler like [Dart
Sass](https://sass-lang.com/), and you don’t want these files to be part of the
asset load path.

```ruby
config.assets.excluded_paths = [Rails.root.join("app/assets/stylesheets")]
```

This will prevent the specified directories from being processed by Propshaft
while still allowing them to be part of the precompilation process.

## Advanced Asset Management

Over the years, there have been multiple default approaches for handling assets.

> As the web evolved, we began to see more JavaScript-heavy applications.

Reviewer 2: I know this is heavily based on the previous guide, but I believe we would miss out by removing the reference to the Omakase doctrine here. Thinking of Eileen's 2024 keynote, and her comment about "indoctrination"- it's little references like this that drive home the Doctrine for new learners that we should try to keep, ie: the Why of Why Rails Does What It Does.

Author: Makes sense, I've added it back!

isn't enough.

### `jsbundling-rails`

[`jsbundling-rails`](https://github.com/rails/jsbundling-rails) is a gem that
integrates modern JavaScript bundlers into your Rails application. It allows you
to manage and bundle JavaScript assets with tools like [Bun](https://bun.sh),
[esbuild](https://esbuild.github.io/), [rollup.js](https://rollupjs.org/), or
[Webpack](https://webpack.js.org/), offering a runtime-dependent approach for
developers seeking flexibility and performance.

#### How `jsbundling-rails` Works

1. After installation, it sets up your Rails app to use your chosen JavaScript
   bundler.
2. It creates a `build` script in your `package.json` file to compile your
   JavaScript assets.
3. During development, the `build:watch` script ensures live updates to your
   assets as you make changes.
4. In production, the gem ensures that JavaScript is built and included during
   the precompilation step, reducing manual intervention. It hooks into Rails'
   `assets:precompile` task to build JavaScript for all entry points during
   deployment. This integration ensures that your JavaScript is production-ready
   with minimal configuration.

> The gem automatically handles entry-point discovery and configuration. By

Reviewer 3: Not sure what "entry-point discovery" means, maybe we can elaborate or remove?

Author: Sounds good - I elaborated a bit more!

4. In production, the gem ensures your stylesheets are compiled and ready for
   deployment. During the `assets:precompile` step, it installs all
   `package.json` dependencies via `yarn` and runs the `yarn build:css` command
   to process your stylesheet entry points. The resulting CSS output is then
   digested by the asset pipeline and copied into the `public/assets` directory,
   just like other asset pipeline files.

This integration simplifies the process of preparing production-ready styles
while ensuring all your CSS is managed and processed efficiently.

#### When Should You Use It?

`cssbundling-rails` is ideal for Rails applications that:

- Use CSS frameworks like [Tailwind CSS](https://tailwindcss.com/),
  [Bootstrap](https://getbootstrap.com/), or [Bulma](https://bulma.io/) that
  require processing during development or deployment.
- Need advanced CSS capabilities such as custom preprocessing with
  [PostCSS](https://postcss.org/) or [Dart Sass](https://sass-lang.com/)
  plugins.
- Require seamless integration of processed CSS into the Rails asset pipeline.
- Benefit from live updates to stylesheets during development with minimal
  manual intervention.

> **NOTE**: Unlike [`dartsass-rails`](https://github.com/rails/dartsass-rails) or

Reviewer 3: Good note!

[`tailwindcss-rails`](https://github.com/rails/tailwindcss-rails), which use
standalone versions of [Dart Sass](https://sass-lang.com/) and [Tailwind
CSS](https://tailwindcss.com/), `cssbundling-rails` introduces a Node.js
dependency. This makes it a good choice for applications already relying on Node
for JavaScript processing with gems like `jsbundling-rails`. However, if you're
using [`importmap-rails`](https://github.com/rails/importmap-rails) for
JavaScript and prefer to avoid Node, standalone alternatives like
[`dartsass-rails`](https://github.com/rails/dartsass-rails) or
[`tailwindcss-rails`](https://github.com/rails/tailwindcss-rails) offer a
simpler setup.

> By integrating modern CSS workflows, automating production builds, and
> leveraging the Rails asset pipeline, `cssbundling-rails` enables developers to
> efficiently manage and deliver dynamic, production-ready styles while
> maintaining flexibility.

Reviewer 3: This reads like a mouthful, maybe make it less wordy like this?

```suggestion
By integrating modern CSS workflows, automating production builds, and
leveraging the Rails asset pipeline, `cssbundling-rails` enables developers to
efficiently manage and deliver dynamic styles.
```

#### How `importmap-rails` Works

- After installation, `importmap-rails` configures your Rails app to use
  `<script type="module">` tags to load JavaScript modules directly in the
  browser.
- JavaScript dependencies are managed using the `bin/importmap` command, which
  pins modules to URLs, typically hosted on CDNs like
  [jsDelivr](https://www.jsdelivr.com/) that host pre-bundled, browser-ready
  versions of libraries. This eliminates the need for `node_modules` or a
  package manager.
- During development, there’s no bundling step, so updates to your JavaScript
  are instantly available, streamlining the workflow.
- In production, the gem integrates with Propshaft to serve JavaScript files as
  part of the asset pipeline. Propshaft ensures files are digested, cached, and
  production-ready. Dependencies are versioned, fingerprinted, and efficiently
  delivered without manual intervention.

**NOTE**: While Propshaft ensures proper asset handling, it does not handle
JavaScript processing or transformations — `importmap-rails` assumes your
JavaScript is already in a browser-compatible format. This is why it works best
for projects that don't require transpiling or bundling.

> By eliminating the need for a build step and Node.js, `importmap-rails`
> simplifies JavaScript management while adhering to Rails conventions.

Reviewer 3: Not sure how is it adhering to rails conventions. Maybe we can elaborate or remove that bit?

```suggestion
By eliminating the need for a build step and Node.js, `importmap-rails`
simplifies JavaScript management.
```

Author: ✅

#### When Should You Use It?

`importmap-rails` is ideal for Rails applications that:

- Do not require complex JavaScript features like transpiling or bundling.

> - Use modern JavaScript without relying on tools like [Babel

Reviewer: Should this `Babel` have a link to something? Looks like it might have been chopped off.

Author: It did 🤔 Wonder how that happened! WIll fix!

  }
}
```

This will transform into:

```javascript
export default class extends Controller {
  init() {
    this.img = "/assets/icons/trash-54g9cbef.svg";
  }
}
```

This ensures that the correct, digested file is used in your JavaScript code.

If you’re using bundlers like [Webpacker](https://webpack.js.org/) or
[esbuild](https://esbuild.github.io/), you should let the bundlers handle the
digesting process. If Propshaft detects that a file already has a digest in the
filename (e.g., `script-2169cbef.js`), it will skip digesting the file again to
avoid unnecessary reprocessing.

For managing assets with [Import Maps](#importmap-rails), Propshaft ensures that
assets referenced in the import map are appropriately handled and mapped to
their digested paths during the precompilation process.

### Bypassing the Digest Step

If you need to reference files that refer to each other—like a JavaScript file
and its source map—and want to avoid the digesting process, you can pre-digest
these files manually. Propshaft recognizes files with the pattern
`-[digest].digested.js` as files that have already been digested and will
preserve their stable file names.

> ### Excluding Directories from Digestion

Reviewer 4: Excluded paths are mentioned at line 333 as well.

Author: Yup! Thanks for calling this out. This and a few other sections were repeated because of my structure, however, I’ve re-ordered the sections so that the flow feels much more natural, and it helped me catch and remove some duplications.

   with minimal configuration.

The gem automatically handles entry-point discovery - identifying the primary
JavaScript files to bundle by following Rails conventions, typically looking in
directories like `app/javascript/` and configuration. By adhering to Rails
conventions, `jsbundling-rails` simplifies the process of integrating complex
JavaScript workflows into Rails projects.

#### When Should You Use It?

`jsbundling-rails` is ideal for Rails applications that:

- Require modern JavaScript features like ES6+, TypeScript, or JSX.
- Need to leverage bundler-specific optimizations like tree-shaking, code
  splitting, or minification.
- Use `Propshaft` for asset management and need a reliable way to integrate
  precompiled JavaScript with the broader Rails asset pipeline.
- Utilize libraries or frameworks that depend on a build step. For example,
  projects requiring transpilation—such as those using
  [Babel](https://babeljs.io/), [TypeScript](https://www.typescriptlang.org/),
  or React JSX—benefit greatly from `jsbundling-rails`. These tools rely on a
  build step, which the gem seamlessly supports.

> By offering deep integration with Rails tools like `Propshaft` and simplifying
> JavaScript workflows, `jsbundling-rails` empowers you to build rich, dynamic
> front-ends while staying productive and adhering to Rails conventions.

Reviewer 4: This paragraph reads more like a marketing site for `jsbundling-rails` 😉 
Maybe we should make it a bit more plain, for example:
```suggestion
By integrating with Rails tools like `Propshaft` and simplifying
JavaScript workflows, `jsbundling-rails` allows you to build rich, dynamic
front-ends while staying productive and adhering to Rails conventions.
```

#### When Should You Use It?

`cssbundling-rails` is ideal for Rails applications that:

- Use CSS frameworks like [Tailwind CSS](https://tailwindcss.com/),
  [Bootstrap](https://getbootstrap.com/), or [Bulma](https://bulma.io/) that
  require processing during development or deployment.
- Need advanced CSS capabilities such as custom preprocessing with
  [PostCSS](https://postcss.org/) or [Dart Sass](https://sass-lang.com/)
  plugins.
- Require seamless integration of processed CSS into the Rails asset pipeline.
- Benefit from live updates to stylesheets during development with minimal
  manual intervention.

**NOTE**: Unlike [`dartsass-rails`](https://github.com/rails/dartsass-rails) or
[`tailwindcss-rails`](https://github.com/rails/tailwindcss-rails), which use
standalone versions of [Dart Sass](https://sass-lang.com/) and [Tailwind
CSS](https://tailwindcss.com/), `cssbundling-rails` introduces a Node.js
dependency. This makes it a good choice for applications already relying on Node
for JavaScript processing with gems like `jsbundling-rails`. However, if you're
using [`importmap-rails`](https://github.com/rails/importmap-rails) for

> JavaScript and prefer to avoid Node, standalone alternatives like

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
JavaScript and prefer to avoid Node.js, standalone alternatives like
```
